

Let me show you the simplest way to run SOQL queries to any environment from single IDE.
I am ging to show this on the IntelliJ IDE, but the driver I am working on is a regular JDBC driver -
so it can be used from any IDE you prefer - Eclipse, Oracle SQL Developer or any other.

So in order to get access there I need to download the JDBC driver from the page:
https://github.com/spuliaiev-sfdc/salesforce-jdbc

And we need to register this driver in the IDE.

Let's start with registration of the database datasoure
admin@RecColl03.org
test12345
jdbc:ascendix:salesforce://ap1.stmpa.stm.salesforce.com

Let's test the connectivity.
Here we see the driver version reported and that connection is good.

By default API version used is 50.0
We can also change the API version used by supplying the parameter
?api=51.0

Now we can run the queries for that org:
select Id, Name from Organization

And we can pull the list of Accounts:
select Id, Name, Owner.Id, Owner.Name from Account

When the pull of existing Entities available for this Org is finished we will see the autocomplete
for the Entity Names and Entity Fields.
 See in the Database Tab the list of available entities.


For now Driver supports only SOQL and some admin commands. And I want to show you how to use CONNECT command.
The syntax of the command is following:

 Let's say I have a diffent org on the same server - I can swithc to that org and get it's data:
 CONNECT USER admin@RecColl04.org IDENTIFIED BY test12345;

 And verifying that org has been switched:
 select Id, Name from Organization

And we can switch not only to another org on this server - we can switch to any server:


 Let's test Locally running server:
 Please use the real host name - not the domain name generated for the particular org by MyDomain feature.

 CONNECT TO jdbc:ascendix:salesforce://dev@Local.org:123456@spuliaiev-wsm1.internal.salesforce.com:6109?https=false&api=51.0

 Select id, name from Organization;

 There is another syntax a bit simplier to do the same:
 CONNECT TO http://spuliaiev-wsm1.internal.salesforce.com:6109
   USER demo@jdbc.org IDENTIFIED BY "123456"
 Select id, name from Organization;

 It uses the schema http or https to identify should it use SSL or not. Sometimes for self signed SSL certificates you will have to use option insecurehttps=true

 That's it for now.
 I am also working on adding UPDATE and INSERT parsers so you could run these commands
 to set up entities in a much simpler manner than using workbench now.
